Project 1: Background & Ambitions

My name is Tarun Gidwani. I was born and raised for majority of my life in Mumbai (formerly Bombay), India. Back home, I attended schools that followed the British schooling system. After completing two years of high school, I moved to the United States with my family in 2009. I attended Neuqua Valley High School, where I got an opportunity to explore my interests by taking various technology, mechanics, and engineering electives. I joined clubs and organizations that aligned with my interests and passions. This gave me an opportunity to apply the concepts and theories discussed in class and get hands on learning experience.

Ever since I was a little kid, machinery and electronic gadgets have interested me. I still remember the day when I was five, my brother and I were playing pinball on Windows 95. We were excited and having fun playing our first computer game. Suddenly, the screen started to flicker and randomly out of nowhere we got the blue screen of death. We were clueless as to what had happened and were very upset that we could not play our game. Thus, we called our uncle who was an electronics engineer at that time. He began to inspect the desktop and found that the OS had somehow rendered itself into an unusable state. As I watched him fix the computer, I began to ponder how a physical object interacted with something intangible to display images on a screen. This experience piqued my curiosity and ignited my passion for computers and technology.

Throughout this course I aspire to learn and master the various tools and technologies used for web-design. I plan on experimenting with these tools, tweaking them to suit my needs, and utilizing them to complete the assigned projects successfully. I would like to learn the right way of doing web-design as I have never had any formal instruction in this area. I intend to ask a lot questions in order to gain a deeper understanding and learn about the inner nuts and bolts. Front end development has always intrigued me, but I would like to further explore the various facets of web-design and see what sparks my interest. I am looking forward to learning about the concepts and theory of standards-based web design and putting them into practice. As it is noticeably challenging to create web-pages that account for everyone using the web, I would like to learn more about the thought process, patterns, and techniques used by web designers. This will enable me to create mobile-first, multi-browser supported, usable, accessible, and sustainable web-pages.

During my time at Illinois Institute of Technology, I aspire to learn and explore many different facets in the field of Computer Science. My interests lie in Operating Systems, Software Engineering, Big Data, and Project Management. I am planning on working with professors on their research in these fields as a research assistant. This will give me an opportunity to learn in depth about a specific field and get some hands on experience by contributing to the research projects. I am also looking for an internship to get acquainted with how things work in the industry. Working in the industry will allow me to put my learnings from the classroom into practice and gauge my interests and disinterests. After graduation, I hope to work in the industry for a few years as a full-stack software engineer. Applying the teachings from this course, will aid me in becoming a proficient front-end developer and in turn allow me to be an overall well-rounded software engineer. The work experience will help me discover my passions before pursuing graduate school. I have a passion for both academia and industry, so I would like to teach at the university level and continue working in the industry.
